DARwIn OP2 guide (#320)
NUbots/NUbook: src/book/03-guides/03-hardware/04-DARwIn-OP2-guide.mdx

---
section: Guides
chapter: Hardware
title: DARwIn OP2 Robot Restoration and Calibration Guide
description: How to use the provided instructions for setting up, restoring, and calibrating the DARwIn OP2 robot system.

> slug: /guides/hardware/DARwIn-OP2-guide

Reviewer: I think all our page names and slugs are in lower case, it would be good to continue that for consistency.

authors:
  - Corah Oliver (@yippyy)
---

## DARwIn OP2 Guide

> 

Reviewer: I'd put something here about the Darwin robots, and maybe a photo too of them. Something about how we used to use them in the competition and now we use them for outreach activities.

Reviewer: Also the change from OP to OP2

### DARwIN OP2 Specifications

- Mainboard: PICO-CV01
- Cpu: Intel Atom N2600 @1.6GHz single core
- Ram: Up to 4GB DDR3/240-ping SO-DIMM module (user replaceable)
- Storage: Half-size mSATA module (32GB) (user replaceable)
- Sub controller: CM-740
- Linux mint 17.3 'Rosa' installed on PICO-CV01 board

### Creating the recovery USB

> 

Reviewer: Something about why we would make this. If you need to completely reflash a Darwin (last resort if you have problems) or you're flashing one for the first time to run the demo.

Reviewer: And a summary of what the steps do

1. Download Tuxboot from the [SourceForge website](https://sourceforge.net/projects/tuxboot/files/0.6/). For this demonstration we will be downloading the Linux version.

>    ![Downloading Tuxboot 1](./images/DARwIn_OP2_guide/Tuxboot1.jpg)

Reviewer: The alt text here isn't very useful. Something like "the SourceForge Tuxboot page showing the Home/0.6 directory". A caption could be useful too, "like navigate into the 0.6 folder".

>    ![Downloading Tuxboot 2](./images/DARwIn_OP2_guide/Tuxboot2.jpg)

Reviewer: same thing as above

> 2. When the first step is complete, run Tuxboot 0.6

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. When the first step is complete, run Tuxboot 0.6.
```

>    ![Running Tuxboot](https://emanual.robotis.com/assets/images/platform/op/op_039.jpg 'Photo from Robotis')

Reviewer: alt text

> 3. Using this [Link](https://sourceforge.net/projects/clonezilla/) will take you to the following screen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. [Using this link](https://sourceforge.net/projects/clonezilla/) will take you to the following screen:
```

   ![Clonezilla 1](./images/DARwIn_OP2_guide/Tuxboot4.jpg)

Click onto the 'Files' tab, then select 'clonezilla_live_stable'.
![Clonezilla 2](./images/DARwIn_OP2_guide/Tuxboot8.jpg)

This will then direct you to a tab filled with different clonezilla versions. What we are looking for is the 'OldFiles' section.
![Clonezilla 3](./images/DARwIn_OP2_guide/Tuxboot5.jpg)

> Clicking into this, we now need to look for the section called '2.0.1-5' (in the following picture, it is the middle option)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clicking into this, we now need to look for the section called '2.0.1-5' (in the following picture, it is the middle option).
```

![Clonezilla 4](./images/DARwIn_OP2_guide/Tuxboot6.jpg)

> In this folder, we need to download 'clonezilla-live-2.0.1-5-i486.iso' (in the following picture, it is the middle option)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this folder, we need to download 'clonezilla-live-2.0.1-5-i486.iso' (in the following picture, it is the middle option).
```

![Clonezilla 5](./images/DARwIn_OP2_guide/Tuxboot7.jpg)

4. When you have successfully downloaded Clonezilla, reopen Tuxboot. The select the 'pre=downloaded' option on screen.
   Select the 'clonezilla-live-2.0.1-5-i486.iso' from your files. Make sure you have ISO selected in the drop-down menu, for the 'Type' selection, pick USB and tick the MD5 check box.
   ![Clonezilla 6](https://emanual.robotis.com/assets/images/platform/op/op_041.jpg 'Photo from Robotis')

After you have done this step, press 'OK' and let the program run.
![Clonezilla 7](https://emanual.robotis.com/assets/images/platform/op/op_043.jpg 'Photo from Robotis')

Once this is complete press 'Exit'.
![Clonezilla 8](https://emanual.robotis.com/assets/images/platform/op/op_044.jpg 'Photo from Robotis')

This completes the Clonezilla portion of this recovery USB.

> **Now that you have successfully created a Clonezilla USB, we now need to put the recovery software onto it. This is done by following the instructions below**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Now that you have successfully created a Clonezilla USB, we now need to put the recovery software onto it. This is done by following the instructions below.**
```

Reviewer: You might find alert boxes useful too, examples are here https://nubook.nubots.net/kitchen-sink/alerts

> 5. Open your USB in your files but leave this for now and following the following [Link](https://sourceforge.net/projects/darwinop/files/Software/Main%20Controller/Recovery%20USB/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Open your USB in your files but leave this for now and [go to SourceForge](https://sourceforge.net/projects/darwinop/files/Software/Main%20Controller/Recovery%20USB/)
```
or something similar, tell the user what the link is before they click it. same thing with your other links

>    We now need to download the DARwIn recovery files. For this example, we are downloading the 'ROBOTIS-OP2_Recovery_20150326.zip'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   We now need to download the DARwIn recovery files. For this example, we are downloading the `ROBOTIS-OP2_Recovery_20150326.zip`.'
```

>    (for the following picture, it is the middle option)

Reviewer: just make this a caption on the image

>    ![Recovery 1](./images/DARwIn_OP2_guide/Recovery1.jpg)

Reviewer: this and all other images need better alt text

> After this has finished downloading, we need to create a 'home' folder in our USB. When you have created such folder, click into it and create another folder called 'partimag', then click into it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After this has finished downloading, we need to create a `home` folder in our USB. When you have created such folder, click into it and create another folder called `partimag`, then click into it.
```

Leave this for the time being.

> Now, go into your downloads and locate your 'ROBOTIS-OP2_Recovery_20150326.zip', unzip the file and click into it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, go into your downloads and locate your `ROBOTIS-OP2_Recovery_20150326.zip`, unzip the file and click into it.
```

(it should look like this)
![Recovery 2](./images/DARwIn_OP2_guide/Recovery2.jpg)

Select all these files and move them into your 'partimag' folder.
`USB / home / partimag`

**You have now completed the ‘creating the recovery USB’ section successfully!**

### Running the recovery USB through the BIOS

Now that we have a recovery USB created with all the right files placed upon it, it is now time to run it on the PICO-CV01 board.

1. Boot up your PICO-CV01 in the BIOS menu (this is usually done by pressing either f12 or delete), locate the 'boot' tab and search for 'boot sequence'.
   Select the Clonezilla USB as the first selection for the sequence, save the changes and restart.
   Once this restarts, Clonezilla should boot up straight away.

2. When Clonezilla boots, a menu screen will appear, the following instructions show be followed:

   1. Clonezilla

>       - Select te default option **'Clonezilla live (default settings. VGA 800x600)'**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Select the default option **'Clonezilla live (default settings. VGA 800x600)'**.
```

      - Choose the image file to restore **'this will be your recovery image'**

   10. Clonezilla - OpenSource Clone System (OCS)

       - Choose the target disk **'this will be your SSD (make sure to check your SSD capacity to see if the recovery files will fit!)'**

   11. Starting to Restore Image to Device

       - Wait until this is complete.

   12. Completed Restoration

       - Press enter to continue

   13. Power Off or Reboot

       - Select one of the following options **'(0) Power Off, (1) Reboot'**

   14. When the power off have successfully shut the DARwIn down, remove the USB and reboot the robot.

For more information about this process check out [Robotis's Clonezilla recovery page](https://emanual.robotis.com/docs/en/platform/op/maintenance/).

### Calibrating the DARwIn OP2 (Ball Calibration)

1. Connect the Darwin via ethernet onto a laptop on the same internet.

2. Using a portable monitor, plug in a HDMI to mini HDMI cable (mini is to be connect to the Darwin, normal HDMI being connected to the monitor).

3. Start the Darwin so the standard demo program is running. Once booted, and in the initial pose, sitting.

> 4. Connect a keyboard and mouse to the Darwin and use them to connect to the robot via SSH in the terminal: `SSH robotis@192.168.123.1`, **with password "111111" (six ones, no quotation marks)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Connect a keyboard and mouse to the Darwin and use them to connect to the robot via SSH in the terminal: `ssh robotis@192.168.123.1`, **with password "111111" (six ones, no quotation marks)**.
```
more with consistency elsewhere in NUbook

> 5. Once you are connected to the Darwin, use a browser (either chrome or firefox) to talk to the robot. The web address should be (http://192.168.123.1:8080/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Once you are connected to the Darwin, use a browser (either chrome or firefox) to talk to the robot. The web address should be (http://192.168.123.1:8080/).
```

6. While on this web address you should see the camera's live feed, with camera parameters on the side and bottom of image.

7. The important parameter is the ball (you will find this is the Darwin transport case. It is orange in colour).
   You will see the section of the camera view highlight pixels in orange, this is showing you an output of its applied color look up table for the ball. You don't want too many of these random
   pixels around if there is no ball in front of the robot, but once you place a ball in front of the robot, it should see it with the orange applied over the ball.

8. Once you are happy with the calibration, press save and exit the program.

> For more information on camera Calibration follow this [Link](https://emanual.robotis.com/docs/en/platform/op2/getting_started/#camera-calibration)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on [camera calibration follow this link](https://emanual.robotis.com/docs/en/platform/op2/getting_started/#camera-calibration).
```
It's good to make links cover more text, as just having 'link' linked may be difficult for people to click. Having a larger linked component is more accessible.

### Calibrating the DARwIn OP2 (Walk Tuner)

1. Connect to the robot via ssh in the terminal: `SSH robotis@192.168.123.1`, **with password "111111"**.

2. While in the terminal, stop the demo binary (as it boots from the start) by using sudo pkill demo.

3. Change the current directory to the walk tuner directory: `cd/robotis/Linux/project/walk_tuner/`

> 4. Run this walk tuner by: `./walk_tuner`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Run the walk tuner by running the command: `./walk_tuner`
```

> 5. While on this terminal, a prompt will ask for the user to press any key to start the tuner. After this, a browser will be needed to access the parameters to tune: (http://192.168.123.1:8080/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. While on this terminal, a prompt will ask for the user to press any key to start the tuner. After this, a browser will be needed to access the parameters to tune: (http://192.168.123.1:8080/).
```

6. Once on this browser, you will see different options to tune. You can change these until you are happy with the walk.
   <Alert>
   Some of the important options that have been used previously are gains, PID controller, step height, DSP ratio, and duty cycle.
   </Alert>

7. Once you are happy, press save and exit the program.

> For more information on parameters follow this [Link](https://emanual.robotis.com/docs/en/platform/op/development/)

Reviewer: full stop and similar thing to this link as others

In this folder, we need to download 'clonezilla-live-2.0.1-5-i486.iso'.
![The SourceForge Clonezilla page showing iso files](./images/darwin_op2_guide/Tuxboot7.jpg 'In the following picture, it is the middle option.')

Clonezilla is a recovery tool which allows the user to create or restore disk images. This software is essential for recovering the DARwIn-OP2 system.

4. When you have successfully downloaded Clonezilla, reopen Tuxboot. The select the 'pre=downloaded' option on screen.
   Select the 'clonezilla-live-2.0.1-5-i486.iso' from your files. Make sure you have ISO selected in the drop-down menu, for the 'Type' selection, pick USB and tick the MD5 check box.
   ![Clonezilla 6](https://emanual.robotis.com/assets/images/platform/op/op_041.jpg 'Photo from Robotis of the Tuxboot application.')

After you have done this step, press 'OK' and let the program run.
![Clonezilla 7](https://emanual.robotis.com/assets/images/platform/op/op_043.jpg 'Photo from Robotis of Tuxboot downloading the necessary files.')

Once this is complete press 'Exit'.
![Clonezilla 8](https://emanual.robotis.com/assets/images/platform/op/op_044.jpg 'Photo from Robotis of the completed process.')

> Using Tuxboot and selecting the Clonezilla iso, the user has now created a bootable USB drive which is ready for the recovery files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using Tuxboot and selecting the Clonezilla ISO, the user has now created a bootable USB drive which is ready for the recovery files.
```

<Alert>
   This completes the Clonezilla portion of this recovery USB.
</Alert>

Now that you have successfully created a Clonezilla USB, we now need to put the recovery software onto it. This is done by following the instructions below.

> 5. Open your USB in your files but leave this for now and [go to SourceForge](https://sourceforge.net/projects/darwinop/files/Software/Main%20Controller/Recovery%20USB/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Open your USB in your files but leave this for now and [go to SourceForge](https://sourceforge.net/projects/darwinop/files/Software/Main%20Controller/Recovery%20USB/).
```

   We now need to download the DARwIn recovery files. For this example, we are downloading the `ROBOTIS-OP2_Recovery_20150326.zip`.

>    ![The SourceForge DARwIn recovery page showing recovery files](./images/darwin_op2_guide/Recovery1.jpg 'For the following picture, it is the middle option.')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ![The SourceForge DARwIn recovery page showing recovery files](./images/darwin_op2_guide/Recovery1.jpg 'Choose the middle option.')
```

After this has finished downloading, we need to create a `home` folder in our USB. When you have created such folder, click into it and create another folder called `partimag`, then click into it.
Leave this for the time being.

Now, go into your downloads and locate your `ROBOTIS-OP2_Recovery_20150326.zip`, unzip the file and click into it.
![The unzipped file of the DARwIn recovery folder](./images/darwin_op2_guide/Recovery2.jpg 'The process should look like this.')

> Select all these files and move them into your `partimag` folder.
> `USB / home / partimag`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select all these files and move them into your `partimag` folder (i.e. `USB/home/partimag`).
```

The user must download the recovery files from SourceForge and move them into the correct places before flashing the DARwIn-OP2.

<Alert>
   You have now completed the ‘creating the recovery USB’ section successfully!
</Alert>

### Running the recovery USB through the BIOS

Now that we have a recovery USB created with all the right files placed upon it, it is now time to run it on the PICO-CV01 board.

1. Boot up your PICO-CV01 in the BIOS menu (this is usually done by pressing either f12 or delete), locate the **boot** tab and search for **boot sequence**.
   Select the Clonezilla USB as the first selection for the sequence, save the changes and restart.
   Once this restarts, Clonezilla should boot up straight away.

> 2. When Clonezilla boots, a menu screen will appear, the following instructions show be followed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. When Clonezilla boots, a menu screen will appear. Execute the following instructions:
```

   4. Start Clonezilla

      - **'Start_Clonezilla Start Clonezilla'**

   5. Clonezilla

      - Select default option **'device-image work with disks or partitions using images'**

   6. Mount Clonezilla Image Directory

      - Select the following **'skip Use existing/home/partimag (Writable device. E.g. hard disk/USB drive)'**

   7. Clonezilla - OpenSource Clone System (OCS)

      - Select the following **'Beginner Beginner mode'** then **'Accept the default options'**

   8. Clonezilla Select mode

      - Select the following **'restoredisk Restore_an_image_to_local_disk'**

   9. Clonezilla - OpenSource Clone System (OCS)

      - Choose the image file to restore **'this will be your recovery image'**

   10. Clonezilla - OpenSource Clone System (OCS)

       - Choose the target disk **'this will be your SSD (make sure to check your SSD capacity to see if the recovery files will fit!)'**

   11. Starting to Restore Image to Device

       - Wait until this is complete.

   12. Completed Restoration

       - Press enter to continue

   13. Power Off or Reboot

       - Select one of the following options **'(0) Power Off, (1) Reboot'**

>    14. When the power off have successfully shut the DARwIn-OP2 down, remove the USB and reboot the robot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   14. When the DARwIn-OP2 has successfully shut down, remove the USB and reboot the robot.
```

> For more information about this process check out [Robotis's Clonezilla recovery page](https://emanual.robotis.com/docs/en/platform/op/maintenance/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about this process check out the [Robotis Clonezilla recovery page](https://emanual.robotis.com/docs/en/platform/op/maintenance/).
```

### Calibrating the DARwIn-OP2 (Ball Calibration)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If the DARwIn-OP2 is unable to track the ball well, then vision needs calibrating.

```

1. Connect the DARwIn-OP2 via ethernet onto a laptop on the same internet.

2. Using a portable monitor, plug in a HDMI to mini HDMI cable (mini is to be connect to the DARwIn-OP2, normal HDMI being connected to the monitor).

> 3. Start the DARwIn-OP2 so the standard demo program is running. Once booted, and in the initial pose, sitting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Start the DARwIn-OP2 so the standard demo program is running. Once booted, it should be in the initial sitting pose.
```

> 4. Connect a keyboard and mouse to the DARwIn-OP2 and use them to connect to the robot via ssh in the terminal: `ssh robotis@192.168.123.1`, **with password "111111" (six ones, no quotation marks)**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Connect a keyboard and mouse to the DARwIn-OP2 and use them to connect to the robot via ssh in the terminal: `ssh robotis@192.168.123.1`, **with password `111111` (six ones)**.
```

> 5. Once you are connected to the DARwIn-OP2, use a browser (either chrome or firefox) to talk to the robot. The web address should be (http://192.168.123.1:8080/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Once you are connected to the DARwIn-OP2, use a browser (e.g. Chrome or FireFox) to talk to the robot. The web address should be (http://192.168.123.1:8080/).
```

6. While on this web address you should see the camera's live feed, with camera parameters on the side and bottom of image.

> 7. The important parameter is the ball (you will find this is the DARwIn transport case. It is orange in colour).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. The important parameter is the orange ball, which can be found in the DARwIn transport case.
```

   You will see the section of the camera view highlight pixels in orange, this is showing you an output of its applied color look up table for the ball. You don't want too many of these random
   pixels around if there is no ball in front of the robot, but once you place a ball in front of the robot, it should see it with the orange applied over the ball.

8. Once you are happy with the calibration, press save and exit the program.

> For more information on camera Calibration visit the [Robotis website camera calibration page](https://emanual.robotis.com/docs/en/platform/op2/getting_started/#camera-calibration).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on camera calibration visit the [Robotis website camera calibration page](https://emanual.robotis.com/docs/en/platform/op2/getting_started/#camera-calibration).
```

### Calibrating the DARwIn-OP2 (Walk Tuner)

> 1. Connect to the robot via ssh in the terminal: `ssh robotis@192.168.123.1`, **with password "111111"**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Connect to the robot via ssh in the terminal: `ssh robotis@192.168.123.1`, **with password `111111`**.
```

   10. Clonezilla - OpenSource Clone System (OCS)

       - Choose the target disk **'this will be your SSD (make sure to check your SSD capacity to see if the recovery files will fit!)'**

   11. Starting to Restore Image to Device

       - Wait until this is complete.

   12. Completed Restoration

       - Press enter to continue

   13. Power Off or Reboot

       - Select one of the following options **'(0) Power Off, (1) Reboot'**

   14. When the DARwIn-OP2 has successfully shut down, remove the USB and reboot the robot.

For more information about this process check out the [Robotis Clonezilla recovery page](https://emanual.robotis.com/docs/en/platform/op/maintenance/).

### Calibrating the DARwIn-OP2 (Ball Calibration)

If the DARwIn-OP2 is unable to track the ball well, then vision needs calibrating.

1. Connect the DARwIn-OP2 via ethernet onto a laptop on the same internet.

2. Using a portable monitor, plug in a HDMI to mini HDMI cable (mini is to be connect to the DARwIn-OP2, normal HDMI being connected to the monitor).

3. Start the DARwIn-OP2 so the standard demo program is running. Once booted, it should be in the initial sitting pose.

> 4. Connect a keyboard and mouse to the DARwIn-OP2 and use them to connect to the robot via ssh in the terminal: `ssh robotis@192.168.123.1`, **with password `111111` (six ones)**.

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't using a portable monitor put you into the Darwins OS? So SSH is only needed when using the laptop or other computer over ethernet/wifi. Unless i'm forgetting something?

Reviewer 2: Also could add something about not powering the portable monitors from the Darwin as the monitor draws too much and causes a brown out.

   </Alert>

3. Plug the power supply into the wall socket and flip the switch to on. After this, turn the DARwIn-OP2 power switch on. This is located to the right of the DC jack.
   ![The Robotis page showing the power switch located on the DARwIn-OP2](./images/darwin_op2_guide/powerSwitch.jpg 'Photo from Robotis of the power switch.')

4. Once the DARwIn-OP2 has booted, the starting position will go stiff and the back panel will light up with different LED colours.
   ![The Robotis page showing the boot sequence](https://emanual.robotis.com/assets/images/platform/op2/op2_010.png 'Photo from Robotis of the boot sequence.')

### Running the demonstration programs on the DARwIn-OP2

There are different types of operation modes for the DARwIn-OP2.

1. Demonstration-ready mode

   This is the default mode when the DARwIn-OP2 is fully booted and is in the seated position.

   The LEDs on the back panel will light up in the sequence: LED 1 (red), LED 2 (blue), and LED 3 (green).
   ![The Robotis page showing the demonstration-ready mode LEDs](./images/darwin_op2_guide/demonstrationMode.jpg 'Photo from Robotis of the demonstration-ready mode LEDs.')

2. Autonomous soccer mode

>    This mode allows the DARwIn-OP2 the ability to follow and kick a soccer ball. The head camera will follow the ball while the legs move along to follow.
>    While in this mode, the robot may fall. This is not an issue due to the DARwIn-OP2 is programmed to recover by pulling itself from the floor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This mode gives the DARwIn-OP2 the ability to follow and kick a soccer ball. The head camera will follow the ball while the legs move along to follow.
   While in this mode, the robot may fall. This is not an issue because the DARwIn-OP2 is programmed to recover by pulling itself from the floor.
```
just some grammar things, don't forget the batch commit function in GitHub

>    To check if the DARwIn-OP2 is in this mode. The LEDs on the back will light up in the sequence: LED 1 (red).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If the DARwIn-OP2 is in this mode, the LEDs on the back will light up in the sequence: LED 1 (red).
```

   ![The Robotis page showing the autonomous soccer mode LEDs](./images/darwin_op2_guide/soccerMode.jpg 'Photo from Robotis of the autonomous soccer mode LEDs.')

3. Interactive motion mode

   This mode allows the DARwIn-OP2 to perform pre-programmed motions.
   ![The Robotis page showing the pre-programmed motions](./images/darwin_op2_guide/motions.jpg 'Photo from Robotis of the pre-programmed motions.')

>    To check if the DARwIn-OP2 is in this mode. The LEDs on the back panel will light up in the sequence: LED 2 (blue).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   if the DARwIn-OP2 is in this mode, the LEDs on the back panel will light up in the sequence: LED 2 (blue).
```

   ![The Robotis page showing the interactive motion mode LEDs](./images/darwin_op2_guide/interactiveMode.jpg 'Photo from Robotis of the interactive motion mode LEDs.')

4. Vision processing mode

>    This mode allows the DARwIn-OP2 to observe coloured cards to perform motions based upon them.
>    ![The Robotis page showing the coloured cards](./images/darwin_op2_guide/motionCards.jpg 'Photo from Robotis of the coloured cards.')
>    These coloured cards can be downloaded at the [SourceForge website](https://sourceforge.net/projects/darwinop/files/etc/ColorCards.ppt/download).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This mode allows the DARwIn-OP2 to observe coloured cards to perform motions based upon them.
   ![The Robotis page showing the coloured cards](./images/darwin_op2_guide/motionCards.jpg 'Photo from Robotis of the coloured cards.')
   These coloured cards can be downloaded at the [SourceForge website](https://sourceforge.net/projects/darwinop/files/etc/ColorCards.ppt/download).
   Cards are kept in the DARwIn case.
```

>    To check if the DARwIn-OP2 is in this mode. The LEDs on the back panel will light up in the sequence: LED 3 (green).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If the DARwIn-OP2 is in this mode, the LEDs on the back panel will light up in the sequence: LED 3 (green).
```

   10. Clonezilla - OpenSource Clone System (OCS)

       - Choose the target disk **'this will be your SSD (make sure to check your SSD capacity to see if the recovery files will fit!)'**

   11. Starting to Restore Image to Device

       - Wait until this is complete.

   12. Completed Restoration

       - Press enter to continue

   13. Power Off or Reboot

       - Select one of the following options **'(0) Power Off, (1) Reboot'**

   14. When the DARwIn-OP2 has successfully shut down, remove the USB and reboot the robot.

For more information about this process check out the [Robotis Clonezilla recovery page](https://emanual.robotis.com/docs/en/platform/op/maintenance/).

### Calibrating the DARwIn-OP2 (Ball Calibration)

If the DARwIn-OP2 is unable to track the ball well, then vision needs calibrating.

1. Using a portable monitor, plug in a HDMI to mini HDMI cable (mini is to be connect to the DARwIn-OP2, normal HDMI being connected to the monitor).

   <Alert>
      Do not power the monitor from the DARwIn-OP2.
   </Alert>

2. Start the DARwIn-OP2 so the standard demo program is running. Once booted, it should be in the initial sitting pose.

> 3. Connect a keyboard and mouse to the DARwIn-OP2 and use them to connect to the robot via ssh in the terminal: `ssh robotis@192.168.123.1`, **with password `111111` (six ones)**.

Reviewer: This looks like it needs updating like the walk tuner section. I think it could be useful to mention somewhere both methods (using the monitor and keyboard to directly access the darwin computer, and using ssh on a separate computer to connect to the darwin computer).

Author: got rid of ssh
